

Proposal Template How To- Basic
Question:  
Our proposal is a professional template with various images and short sentences to convey intent.  There are also a minimum of 2 testimonials on the proposal.
Summary: 
A proposal summary provides a concise overview of the proposal itself.  Summaries are essential to a proposal because they're usually the first part that a decision maker or influencer will read.  We recommend a slide deck summary that goes along with your proposal pricing.  We have three examples of proposal templates, as well as a breakdown on what can go on each slide/page of the proposal.  Please refer to the following downloads within Sales MaturIT:
* 1.2.1.1_SF_ST_Proposal Template - Example #1
* 1.2.1.2_SF_ST_Proposal Template - Example #2
* 1.2.1.3_SF_ST_Proposal Template - Example #3
Structure: 
? Slide 1:
o Add your contact details – name, title, email, mobile
o Logo of the organization you are presenting to
o Logo of your company and contact information
o Add the contact details for anyone attending from your organization to show you as the Sales or Business Development Representative, the CEO, or Technical Contact.







? Slide 2:
o Add a proprietary Notice & Non-Disclosure Statement
o Add your logo (name repetition) and a picture
 
? Slide 3:
o Explain the purpose of the document, the summary, and why you are providing the services you offer
o Add in 2 testimonials on this slide in the upper and lower corners of the slide
 


? Slide 4:
o Title:  Our Understanding of Your Needs
o Explain your understanding of what their needs are, summarize in bullet format
o Example:  Co-Managed IT Support, Co-Managed Help Desk Support, Cybersecurity Monitoring, Dark Web Monitoring, BDR, and add a picture

 
? Slide 5:
o Title:  Our Solution
o Breakout your solution in bullet format – add a picture
o Example:  Provide Co-Managed IT services, Dark Web Prevention, Cyber Security Monitoring, Proactive versus Reactive Support
o The summary slide should include the main points of your presentation, which support the message you are trying to convey.   What is the need for the work, and what does it accomplish? 
o 
? Slide 6:
o Title:  Managed IT Services Pricing
o Description, quantity, and total in line-item format
o List the description details to the left and a section to the right on the benefits you will offer
 


? Slide 7:
o Questions/Next Steps

 




1.2.1_SF_ST_Proposal Template How To- Basic 
Page 1 of 2	






