Moz
Question
A web presence monitoring system is used to monitor keywords and competitors.  Moz Free tools with Google Analytics is acceptable at this level.  
Summary 
SEO (Search Engine Optimization) is a critical analytical component in driving potential clients to your MSPs website.  Identifying what keywords prospects use when looking for IT services providers and discovering what your competitors are using to bring prospects to their websites is powerful information that can be used to better position your MSP higher up on the search results list.   At the foundational level there are some free tools that are stronger enough to give you great information. 
Things to Consider: Moz Free Tools
Moz Free Domain Analysis Tool- Businesses looking to drive more traffic to their website should conduct a Domain Analysis assessment to determine where their website ranks in a SERP (Search Engine Results Page).  The greater their Domain Authority (DA) in a particular subject or industry, the higher up their website will display on the SERP PageRank.
Four Factors in Achieving Domaine Authority
* Prestige of a Website and its Authors-The prestige of a website, or Node, is determined by how other prestigious websites (Nodes) point to that site.  It is based on quality and quantity.  In addition, the prestige of the authors of the website are taken into consideration.  Twitter and Google Plus profiles are looked at here as well as the prestige of those authors who quote or reference them.   Other domain factors include link-diversification, link-dynamics, backlinks, public availability of whois of the domain owner, domain age and volatility of the ownership to assess their prestige and organic traffic to a site congruent to its prestige.
* Quality of Information- In short, Quality of Information is the value the information provides to the reader.  This includes: accuracy, objectivity, reliability, relevance, value-add, authenticity, completeness, format, coherence, accessibility, style, and grammatical correctness and more.
* Website Centrality- This refers to the outgoing links of a website.  Outgoing links from on a website should point to and direct readers to other prestigious websites.
* Competitive Situation Around a Subject- SERP also looks at the competitiveness of the website in a specific sector.  A website must outperform and be more prestigious than its competitors in a comparable sector or subject to achieve Domain Authority.     
Moz Free Keyword Explorer Tool
Keyword research tools look for and identify words, terms, and phrases that users enter when searching for specific products, services and other information.  Keywords are related to queries, which are asked by users in search engines. There are three types of queries: 
? Navigational Search Query- Users type in the exact website such as weather.com
? Informational Search Query- Users type in a broad topic such as gaming systems
? Transactional Search Query- Users are looking to make a purchase and will use terms like buy, order or download 
The Keyword search tool will first search for keywords, and then align a website with these keywords to improve SERP rankings. Once a niche keyword is discovered, it is expanded upon in order to find similar, alternative, phrases and alternately spelled keyword suggestions.  All of this is designed to increase SERP and direct traffic to the website.
Moz Free Link Explorer Tool
The Moz Link Explorer tool will help find websites that link to your site.  It should be noted that some links will help your SERP ranking while others can damage your ranking.  
Link Explorer analyzes the hyperlinks found on other websites that direct users to your website. These hyperlinks, known as “backlinks” guide traffic to your site thus boosting your SEO. You can use the Link Explorer results to get an in-depth look at your site and analyze the links that direct people to you.  You can also make necessary updates to links that may negatively impact your SERP results.
Why Should You Do a Link Analysis?
If you have taken all the proper steps to optimize your website SEO, but are still having issues with higher SERP rankings, you may want to consider running the Moz Link Explorer.  By doing so, you may find links that are lowering your SEO rankings.  Smaller websites with very few links will probably not show many issues, but, as websites grow and links increase, it is a good idea to conduct such efforts on a quarterly basis.  
 What to be Aware of
When conducting a Link Explorer analysis for your SEO, be on the lookout for both good and bad links. Good links come from other websites that will increase Google’s trust in your website, in turn boosting your SEO.
Conversely, a bad or link will cause Google to lose trust in you thus lowering our SERP rank.  For example, If the link comes from a website that has nothing or little to do with your niche or topic, that looks bad.  Be sure that your links come from reputable sites that show that you’re an expert in your field.  As a result, Google will be more likely to show your links in SERPs.  Also, when analyzing your links, it’s a good idea to look at the associated backlink text to your site.  
Appropriate associated text will build credibility to the page your link is pointing to and will look less like spam.    
 The Benefits of Link Explorer
Link Explorer offers several benefits for increasing your SEO results.  Analyzing your links is vital when initiating link building campaigns, as it’s important to only have links from reputable sites. If you end up with a backlink from a sketchy website, Link Explorer can help you realize and disavow that link before it hurts your SERP.
Link Explorer also enables you to analyze your competitor’s links.  If their websites are outperforming your SEO through links and sources that you don’t have, you may want to attempt to try to get those same links.
Moz Free Competitive Research 
With Moz Competitive Research, you can enter any site to see an instant competitive analysis, including a list of your top SERP competitors and keyword & content opportunities.
How to Move to Level 5
[  ]  Use the Moz Free Domain Analysis tool to increase your SERP, your website prestige and further you Domain Authority in your industry 
[  ]  Use the free Moz Keyword Explorer tool to discover and implement the most appropriate and best  searchable keywords to drive traffic to your website   
[  ]  Use the Moz Link Explorer tool to analyze your website links as well as backlinks to increase Google trust and increase SERP SEO 



1.2.4_SF_ST_Moz
Page 1 of 2
		 










