


Date: 
To: 

From: 
Re: 30-Day Appointment Attack Plan (insert date range)
As we have hit the xxx-day term from on-boarding, we have areas of attack we need to identify and improve to achieve Appointment success.   The following are those areas the management has observed for correction and improvement during the next XXX weeks.
We invested in delivering actual growth through coaching and practice on all aspects of prospecting calls with verified successful processes.
Attack Area 1.
Prospecting –Decision Makers, Email, Social Media, Contract End Dates

? Sales Script
The goal of the script is to deliver information on XXX and its value to the prospect.  The call should not be a request to be on the vendor list but to solve problems for the prospect and drive to an appointment.  Ask questions that show operational business needs that XXX can meet.  Use empathy when a prospect says they “are good” to keep the conversation open to find pain points.
Action:
Work with XXX and XXX on 3x weekly role plays to redevelop your skills.  Your script use is critical to getting prospects to want to talk to you.  The sessions using the script and talk tracks will be essential to getting more practice to seize opportunities and win appointments.

? You are achieving stated goals for calls per day, but the number of decision-makers reached is low.  Your gatekeeper effectiveness score is the ability to get past the gatekeeper and speak to a decision maker/influencer.  Your GKES should be in a range of 5-8%.  Your GKES for December was XXX for the month of XXX.
	Action:
1) You need to stay on calls to get past the gatekeeper – use the script to build the relationship with the gatekeeper to get the proper names you need to help you get through.  At a minimum, try to grab an email address, find out who is in charge, and seek the information you need.  Don’t let a phone tree deter you – try another department.  Stay in conversations longer – if you make the dial, have the conversation – leave the voicemail – don't just move on to the next call.  Create your brand awareness – get your name out there.  
2) Use LinkedIn and Google to learn a little about the company and possible DMs before the call to allow a fluid conversation.  Understanding the organization and relating an essential XXX service to that industry helps get a positive relationship that leads to a positive appointment outcome
Sales Effectiveness/CED – Contract End Dates
You need to have conversations to ask the questions you need to understand the potential business.  It would be best to focus on increasing your contract end dates to help populate your pipeline.  Contract end dates are critical because they give you the tool you need to call back before coming due – potential clients are ripe at this point to listen to you about possibly shifting gears.  Draw out pain points and offer your services.  Remember that your Sales Effectiveness Score should be >30%.  You are currently at XXX.  Continue building this base of data on prospects to maintain this range.
Action:
Please stay on the phone long enough to get to a conversation and uncover CEDs where they exist.  Remember, a vast % of CEDs turn into appointments.  Get as many as you can to improve your metrics.  Use the script to achieve this goal.
Queue Management
? Your contact list is your pipeline and, if managed correctly, will feed the items already mentioned.   When GKs give you a day and time to call DMs back, these notes need to redirect you to the next call.  Make sure this is being done within CS.   Your queue must be kept correctly with notes to give you the feedback to make these return calls when there is interest.  In addition, we need to correctly work the cadence on emails/voice mails/calls.
Action:
Work with XXX and XXX to go over the queue – follow his lead on how to maneuver and stack your follow-up calls.  
Appointment Booking 
? Your goal as a B2B Sales Representative is Booking Appointments – you are looking to set 1 appointment per week as a goal to shoot for or four overall for the next month.  When you book an appointment, make sure notes are clear and every detail is documented - if there are questions, ask for help.   
Action:
A minimum goal of 4 verified and accepted appointments must be set during the plan term.  




? Timeline
? XXX and XXX will listen to calls daily and make coaching assessments.
? We will create Huddle events to assist (2x/week)
? Role Play practice and Call Reviews (2x/week)
? Progress Review during our Thursday 1 on 1.
? TBD- Role Play practice with trainer in Training

XXX, we are committed to helping you get to a level of success in this role.  Failure to comply with the attack plan could include disciplinary action up to and including termination.














