
Cadence for Marketing;

When you are working on a marketing campaign, best practices are outlined below. Creating awareness is the first step in the process.
The campaign should be designed to generate leads from a list of prospects.  This can be a list of companies that you have already reached out to, maybe have gone cold, or informed they are not making changes right now, some interest was shown, maybe they are listed for follow up.  This should not be used for active prospects you are already in conversations with or current clients.
>  Decide on the information you will be sending out – examples below
a. General info on your company
b. Cyber Security information
c. Offering of a free network assessment (including a deadline)
d. Offering of a free security assessment/dark web information
> Have your warm 250 list pulled together and updated with contact information
a. Make sure you are working with a clean list – avoid mailing out duplicate addresses.  Check the address and contact information, look to remove businesses who might have closed, try to keep the list clean.
b. If you have identified companies who are using an MSP currently, those are the ones you want to target.  Companies who have their own internal IT department are not the right fit here. (unless your are pitching Co-managed services)
c. The number of mailers you send out should be within the range   the rep can handle along with other responsibilities they have in their role. Typically, we see 30-50 at a time based on the MSP.
> Make sure your email template is written and ready to go
> Have your script in place for the outbound calls you are going to do 
> Have messaging ready for LinkedIn




> Schedule your outbound mail to be released on a Monday.
        Week One – based on sending out 50 pieces of mail (suggested)
1. Monday – Send out mail
2. Wednesday / Thursday Make an intro call and follow up with an email (Call, Voicemail, Email)
3. Thursday - Find them on LinkedIn – invite them to connect, like their page
4. Friday - Make follow-up call and send second email	
Week Two – based on sending out 50 pieces of mail (suggested)
1. Monday – send 2nd piece of mail
2. Wednesday – make follow up call, voicemail, send email
3. Thursday – Friday – make follow up call and send follow up email
Week Three – based on sending out 50 pieces of mail (suggested)
1. Monday – send 3rd piece of mail
2. Wednesday – Make follow up call, voicemail, send follow up email
3. Friday – LinkedIn





The way to keep a drip campaign running is to have overlap.
Once you are working on week 2 of the first 50 prospects, send out week 1 of the next 50 and so forth.

Tracking
> Track the prospects so you can review results
> # Of request to remove from list
> # Of email replies
> # Of conversations you had
> # Of follow ups you were able to put in place
> # Of warm leads
> # Of appointments
Once you are at the end of the cadence, and based on the results, you can shift the remaining prospects into a farm list and keep them in a drip campaign for follow up.


Email Templates Best Practices:
Opening Line:
Address recipients by their name, state the reason for the email, make it more about them than about you
Offer Line:
Highlight a pain point in their industry, attach a link to an article about something relative to them.
Closing Line:
End with a clear, short call to action that can be answered with a yes or no. This will make them more likely to reply if there is no friction involved. Be polite never aggressive.
Signature Line:
Name, phone, email website information is great.  However, if there is an award, anything credible that can be added under your name and company info – then add it.

Voicemail:
> Try not to sell when leaving voicemail.  You are looking for a call back so  you can have that conversation.
> Ideal voicemail length is between 20-30 seconds.
> Be prepared with what your message is going to be
> Ask for the call back
> Slow down when leaving a phone number or email


2










