
Sales Excellence Sales & Marketing
Question:
We do a weekly podcast for sales prospecting in your territory.  You have now built a weekly podcast that interviews thought leaders, clients, prospects, and others in your region that would be impactful for your prospects and clients.
Summary:  
The podcast is meant to build brand awareness, client loyalty, & have you seen as an authority in the space.  Think less of building leads here – you will only produce a few.  However, the ROI is that you become the circle of influence, and prospecting is easier for the salesperson.
Basic of Doing a Podcast
The idea is for marketing through your podcast.
Podcast Length: 20 to 25 minutes
Podcast Style: Interview
Equipment:
? Microphone – only if yours is of poor quality
? Lighting – lighting equipment is very inexpensive
? Professional Background of some kind – even if it’s a fake background
Before the episode starts – have a questionnaire that your interviewee completed, and you have reviewed.  Go over the questionnaire with the interviewee before the episode begins.
Interview Question Examples:
? Corporate start-up story
? How did you get into this business?
? How did you get your first big breakthrough?
? One time the sky was falling in business, and how did you overcome it?
? Advice for someone just starting in your industry.

Basic Podcast Editing and Uploading
1.  Listen to/watch the entire episode
a. Outline the episode, using timestamps for transition moments and major talking
points
b. Note any awkward pauses, coughs, or places where someone stumbles over
their words or the conversation lags/gets off topic; use timestamps, so they're
easy to find
2.  Edit the episode (I use Final Cut Pro to edit the Zoom video)
a. Adjust the volume of the episode if needed
b.  Starting from the end of the episode and working backward, edit out the pauses
you identified (if you start at the beginning, your time stamps will be off)
c. Shave off the end if needed and any dead space at the beginning
3.  If using the video of the episode for editing, export the audio file
4.  If you want any overlaid image on the video portion of the interview, edit that to be
episode-specific
5.  Add media to the video version, if applicable:
a. Video intro and outro
b. Image overlay
c.  Bumpers/Sponsorships
6.  Export video file
7.  Using Logic or another audio editor, add media if applicable
a. Podcast intro and outro
b.  Bumpers or sponsorships
c.  You can do more audio engineering here if you have that skill or want to learn it
8.  Export audio file
9.  Update timestamps in your outline
10.  Write 300-word minimum synopsis for SEO purposes
a. Break it down by topic, using timestamps for easy reference (and for YouTube)
11.  Create episode art
a. Square for Instagram and podcast hosting sites
b.  1280 x 720 for YouTube, LinkedIn, and Facebook
12.  Upload the episode to Libsyn or Anchor.FM  (or another podcast site)
a. Add title, short description, tags, and thumbnail
b.  Set release date
c.  Copy embed code for the player and paste it into a document
13.  Upload episode to YouTube
a.  Add a title, 300-word synopsis with timestamps, and art
b.  Set release date
c.  Copy the link and paste it into a document
d.  Copy embed code and paste it into a document
14.  Build a webpage
a.  Add title, 300-word description, and embed codes from both YouTube and Libsyn or Anchor.FM
15.  Promote!
a. Post about the episode on social media, send announcement emails, and ask
your friends, family, employees, and/or coworkers to download episodes and
rate/review the podcast


HOW TO DO A PODCAST
Page 1 of 2






